\# -*- mode: manedit; tab-width: 4 -*-
\# jed-to-tm.man -> jed-to-tm.1
\#
\# Copyright (C) 1989-2022 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
\#
\# Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
\# document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
\# Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
\# Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts,
\# and with no Back-Cover Texts.
\#
\# A copy of the Free Documentation License is included as a file
\# called FDL in the main directory of the groff source package.
\#
.TH jed-to-tm 1 "29 Sep 2022" "NDC-Tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jed-to-tm \- extracts tm documentation from S-Lang or C files.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY jed-to-tm
.OP \-
.OP \-h
.OP \-v
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program loads and process S-Lang / JED or C and 
prints out any documentation in \(oqtm\(cq format.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
cat $JED_HOME/lib/*.sl | jed-to-tm > jed-lib.tm
.EE
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR \%jed (1),
.BR \%slsh (1),
.BR \%jed\-man (1).
.
.SH AUTHOR
.MT nereus@\:freemail.gr
Nicholas Christopoulos
.ME
.br
.UR https://codeberg.org/nereusx/jedc-macros
Project page:
.UE
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2020, 2022 Nicholas Christopoulos.
.br
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.
\# Local Variables:
\# mode: nroff
\# End:
\# vim: set filetype=groff:
