\# -*- mode: manedit; tab-width: 4 -*-
\# jed-man.man -> jed-man.1
\#
\# Copyright (C) 1989-2022 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
\#
\# Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this
\# document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License,
\# Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
\# Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts,
\# and with no Back-Cover Texts.
\#
\# A copy of the Free Documentation License is included as a file
\# called FDL in the main directory of the groff source package.
\#
.TH jed-man 1 "24 Sep 2022" "NDC-Tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
jed-man \- creates manual pages and/or used as \fBman\fR command for S-Lang and/or JED.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY jed-man
.OP \-s text
.OP \-d text
.OP \-r{s|d} pattern
.OP \-a
.OP \-m
.OP \-c
.OP \-p directory
.OP \-h
.OP \-v
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program loads and process \(oqtm\(cq files of S-Lang / JED.
Those files are the official documentation of the projects.
It can be used to search and display help pages in the terminal or with groff output.
Also, it can be used to create manual directory with manual pages (e.g. \(oq/usr/man/man3sl\(cq).
.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-a
Prints all the pages of its database.
.TP
.BI \-s\  text
Search for names for \fItext\fR.
.TP
.BI \-d\  text
Search names and descriptions for \fItext\fR.
.TP
.BI \-r{s|d}\  pattern
Used with \(oq\-qs\(cq or \(oq\-d\(cq to enable regular expression patterns.
.TP
.BR \-m
Enables groff output instead of console codes.
.TP
.BR \-c
Creates cache-file to speed up the queries.
The cache contains the whole database, no source files are needed after that.
.TP
.BR \-p\ \fI output-directory \fR
Create man pages directory for all the elements of its database.
Use it with \(oq\-m\(cq option to get clean manual pages.
This option will erase the cache file before runs.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.EX
# regex search:
jed-man -rs buffer

# create manpages in man3sl directory, it is best to put man3sl inside
# \(oq/usr/share/man\(cq directory or add its parent to \fI$MANPATH\fR.
# Also it should be used with \(oq\-m\(cq option to produce groff pages.
jed-man -apm man3sl
.EE
.
.SH FILES
\fBjed\-man\fR reads \(oq\fI${JED_HOME}/.jed-man.rc\fR\(cq, otherwise the \(oq\fI~/.jed-man.rc\fR\(cq file.
.TP
.BR *.tm
These files are the source files and exists in S-Lang (\(oqslang/doc/tm/rtl\(cq) and JED (\(oqjed/doc/tm/rtl\(cq) projects.
If jed\-man create cache, it will not need to use them again. If it will create man\-pages of course are not needed from
.BR \%man (1)
command.
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR \%jed (1),
.BR \%slsh (1),
.BR \%man (1),
.BR \%groff (1), 
.BR \%regex (7).
.
.SH AUTHOR
.MT nereus@\:freemail.gr
Nicholas Christopoulos
.ME
.br
.UR https://github.com/nereusx/jedc-macros
Project page:
.UE
.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2020, 2022 Nicholas Christopoulos.
.br
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.
\# Local Variables:
\# mode: nroff
\# End:
\# vim: set filetype=groff:
